Require SerializeElement to fail if the Element is the identity element; Add specific Serialize functions for public keys (#179)
cfrg/draft-irtf-cfrg-frost: draft-irtf-cfrg-frost.md

- Identity(): Outputs the identity `Element` of the group (i.e. `I`).
- RandomScalar(): Outputs a random `Scalar` element in GF(p).
- RandomNonzeroScalar(): Outputs a random non-zero `Scalar` element in GF(p).
- SerializeElement(A): Maps an `Element` `A` to a unique byte array `buf` of fixed length `Ne`,
  and fails if the input is not a valid byte representation of an element of
  the group. This function can raise a SerializeError if serialization fails
  or `A` is the identity element of the group; see {{ciphersuites}} for group-specific
  input validation steps.
- DeserializeElement(buf): Attempts to map a byte array `buf` to an `Element` `A`,
  and fails if the input is not a valid byte representation of an element of
  the group. This function can raise a DeserializeError if deserialization fails
  or `A` is the identity element of the group; see {{ciphersuites}} for group-specific
  input validation steps.

> - SerializePublicKey(): Maps a public key Element` `PK` to a unique byte array `buf` of fixed length `Ne`,

Reviewer: @dconnolly's suggestion to make this SerializeNonIdentityElement seems good, so I might make that change here (and similarly for the deserialize function).

Reviewer 2: Signature commitments, nonce commitments, group commitments, all can/should reject the identity, and the only place that MAY not are the public keys (just reviewing the spec just now this appears correct)

  and fails if the input is not a valid byte representation. `PK` can be the identity element,
  to ensure uniform sampling of `sk` over `GF(p)`.

> - DeserializeElement(buf): Attempts to map a byte array `buf` to an `Element` `A`,
>   and fails if the input is not a valid byte representation of an element of
>   the group. This function can raise a DeserializeError if deserialization fails
>   or `A` is the identity element of the group; see {{ciphersuites}} for group-specific
>   input validation steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is duplicated from `DesieralizeElement` above.

- Identity(): Outputs the identity `Element` of the group (i.e. `I`).
- RandomScalar(): Outputs a random `Scalar` element in GF(p).
- RandomNonzeroScalar(): Outputs a random non-zero `Scalar` element in GF(p).

> - SerializeElement(A): Maps an `Element` `A` to a unique byte array `buf` of fixed length `Ne`,
>   and fails if the input is not a valid byte representation of an element of
>   the group. This function can raise a SerializeError if serialization fails.
>   See {{ciphersuites}} for group-specific input validation steps. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- SerializeElement(A): Maps an `Element` `A` to a unique byte array `buf` of fixed length `Ne`.
```

- DeserializeElement(buf): Attempts to map a byte array `buf` to an `Element` `A`,
  and fails if the input is not a valid byte representation of an element of
  the group. This function can raise a DeserializeError if deserialization fails.
  See {{ciphersuites}} for group-specific input validation steps.

> - SerializeNonIdentityElement(A): Maps an `Element` `A` to a unique byte array `buf` of fixed length `Ne`,
>   and fails if the input is not a valid byte representation of an element of
>   the group. This function can raise a SerializeError if serialization fails
>   or `A` is the identity element of the group; see {{ciphersuites}} for group-specific
>   input validation steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- SerializeNonIdentityElement(A): Maps an `Element` `A` to a unique byte array `buf` of fixed length `Ne`.
  This function will raise a SerializeError if `A` is the identity element of the group.
```

Beyond the core dependencies, the protocol in this document depends on the
following helper operations:

> - Serializion of public key material {{dep-serialize-pk}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Schnorr signatures, {{dep-schnorr}};
- Polynomial operations, {{dep-polynomial}};
- Encoding operations, {{dep-encoding}};
- Signature binding {{dep-binding-factor}}, group commitment {{dep-group-commit}}, and challenge computation {{dep-sig-challenge}}

This sections describes these operations in more detail.

## Serialization of Public Key Material {#dep-serialize-pk}

Implementations may wish to sample public key material from a distribution that either includes 
or rejects the identity element of the underlying group. To scope this choice to only public 
key material, we define the following two alias functions. See {{dep-pog}} for more information.

- SerializePublicKey(PK): Alias for *either* SerializeElement(A) or SerializeNonIdentity(A) as required by the application.

> - DeserializePublicKey(buf): Alias for *either* DeserializeElement(buf) or DeserializeNonIdentity(buf), as required by the application. 

Reviewer: This isn't used?

Author: You don't think we should define it, for symmetry?

Reviewer: My take is that if it's not used it shouldn't be included, like any dead code.

Author: Per a conversation with @dconnolly , it is currently being used implicitly when receiving as input the group info. We agreed to make this step explicit, and to keep `DeserializePublicKey`.

> - DeserializePublicKey(buf): Alias for *either* DeserializeElement(buf) or DeserializeNonIdentity(buf), as required by the application. 

Reviewer 2: 👍

> ## Serialization of Public Key Material {#dep-serialize-pk}
> 
> Implementations may wish to sample public key material from a distribution that either includes 
> or rejects the identity element of the underlying group. To scope this choice to only public 
> key material, we define the following two alias functions. See {{dep-pog}} for more information.
> 
> - SerializePublicKey(PK): Alias for *either* SerializeElement(A) or SerializeNonIdentity(A) as required by the application.
> - DeserializePublicKey(buf): Alias for *either* DeserializeElement(buf) or DeserializeNonIdentity(buf), as required by the application. 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, the protocol in this document uses the function `SerializePublicKey` as an alias for `SerializeElement`. 
```

- Group: edwards25519 {{!RFC8032}}
  - Cofactor (`h`): 8
  - SerializeNonIdentityElement: Implemented as specified in {{!RFC8032, Section 5.1.2}}.

>     Additionally, this function validates that the resulting element is not the group
>     identity element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This function raises a SerializeError exception if the input is the identity element.
```

- Group: ristretto255 {{!RISTRETTO=I-D.irtf-cfrg-ristretto255-decaf448}}
  - Cofactor (`h`): 1

>   - SerializeNonIdentityElement: Implemented using the 'Encode' function from {{!RISTRETTO}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - SerializeNonIdentityElement: Implemented using the 'Encode' function from {{!RISTRETTO}}.
     This function raises a SerializeError exception if the input is the identity element.
```

>   - DeserializeNonIdentityElement: Implemented using the 'Decode' function from {{!RISTRETTO}}.

Reviewer: This is missing the identity check, right?

- Group: edwards448 {{!RFC8032}}
  - Cofactor (`h`): 4
  - SerializeNonIdentityElement: Implemented as specified in {{!RFC8032, Section 5.2.2}}.

>     Additionally, this function validates that the resulting element is not the group
>     identity element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This function raises a SerializeError exception if the input is the identity element.
```

- Group: P-256 (secp256r1) {{x9.62}}
  - Cofactor (`h`): 1
  - SerializeNonIdentityElement: Implemented using the compressed Elliptic-Curve-Point-to-Octet-String
    method according to {{SECG}}.

>     Additionally, this function validates that the resulting element is not the group
>     identity element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This function raises a SerializeError exception if the input is the identity element.
```

    the compressed Octet-String-to-Elliptic-Curve-Point method according to {{SECG}},
    and then performs partial public-key validation as defined in section 5.6.2.3.4 of
    {{!KEYAGREEMENT=DOI.10.6028/NIST.SP.800-56Ar3}}. This includes checking that the
    coordinates of the resulting point are in the correct range, that the point is on
    the curve, and that the point is not the point at infinity. Additionally, this function
    validates  that the resulting element is not the group identity element.
    If these checks fail, deserialization returns an error.
  - SerializeElement: Implemented using the compressed Elliptic-Curve-Point-to-Octet-String
    method according to {{SECG}}.
  - DeserializeElement: Implemented by attempting to deserialize a public key using
    the compressed Octet-String-to-Elliptic-Curve-Point method according to {{SECG}},
    and then performs partial public-key validation as defined in section 5.6.2.3.4 of
    {{!KEYAGREEMENT=DOI.10.6028/NIST.SP.800-56Ar3}}. This includes checking that the
    coordinates of the resulting point are in the correct range, that the point is on
    the curve, and that the point is not the point at infinity. 

>     If these checks fail, deserialization returns an error.

Reviewer 2: The P256 thing excludes the point at infinity, which is usually the identity. Is there a way to exclude the identity for this version of P256 at all?

Author: P256 is a group, which requires inclusion of the identity element.
